README.md, before:

# Kubernetes + Dex + LDAP Integration

A simple walk-through guide for how to integrate `Kubernetes` with `Dex` + `LDAP`.

In this experiment, we're going to use these major components:

- Kubernetes v1.21.x, powered by [`kind` v0.11.1](https://kind.sigs.k8s.io/);
- [Dex](https://github.com/dexidp/dex) v2.30.x;
- [OpenLDAP](https://www.openldap.org/) with [osixia/openldap:1.5.x](https://github.com/osixia/docker-openldap)

A Medium article was posted too, here: https://brightzheng100.medium.com/kubernetes-dex-ldap-integration-f305292a16b9

The overall idea can be illustrated as below:

![architecture](misc/architecture.png)

## Get Started

```sh
git clone https://github.com/brightzheng100/kubernetes-dex-ldap-integration.git
cd kubernetes-dex-ldap-integration
```

## The TL;DR Guide

### Setup

The TD;DR guide uses the script here: [setup.sh](setup.sh), which will:
1. check the required tools -- there are some of them: `docker`, `git`, `cfssl`, `cfssljson`, `kind`, `kubectl`;
2. generate the necessary TLS certs/keys for both Kubernetes and Dex;
3. create `kind`-powered Kubernetes with OIDC configured with Dex;
4. deploy OpenLDAP in namespace `ldap` as the LDAP Server with some dummy entities;
5. deploy Dex in namespace `dex`;
6. create a proxy so that we can access Dex from our laptop (e.g. my MBP)

```sh
./setup.sh
```

> Note: the populated dummy LDAP entities, all with password `secret`, include:
> - `admin1@example.org`
> - `admin2@example.org`
> - `developer1@example.org`
> - `developer2@example.org`

### Use

It's common to set up the kube config, e.g. `~/.kube/config`, for daily use.

For that, we may simply follow these steps:

1. Bind some users, say **"admin1@example.org"**, as the **"cluster-admin"**

    ```sh
    $ kubectl create clusterrolebinding oidc-cluster-admin \
      --clusterrole=cluster-admin \
      --user="admin1@example.org"
    ```

2. Use [`kubelogin`](https://github.com/int128/kubelogin) plugin to simplify the integration

    ```sh
    $ echo "127.0.0.1 dex.dex.svc" | sudo tee -a /etc/hosts

    $ SVC_PORT="$(kubectl get -n dex svc/dex -o json | jq '.spec.ports[0].nodePort')"
    $ kubectl config set-credentials oidc-cluster-admin \
        --exec-api-version=client.authentication.k8s.io/v1beta1 \
        --exec-command=kubectl \
        --exec-arg=oidc-login \
        --exec-arg=get-token \
        --exec-arg=--oidc-issuer-url=https://dex.dex.svc:$SVC_PORT \
        --exec-arg=--oidc-redirect-url-hostname=dex.dex.svc \
        --exec-arg=--oidc-client-id=example-app \
        --exec-arg=--oidc-client-secret=ZXhhbXBsZS1hcHAtc2VjcmV0 \
        --exec-arg=--oidc-extra-scope=email \
        --exec-arg=--certificate-authority=`pwd`/tls-setup/_certs/ca.pem
    ```

3. Use the user to access Kubernetes

    ```sh
    $ kubectl --user=oidc-cluster-admin get nodes
    ```

    This will prompt us a authentication UI in our default browser, key in the credential of abovementioned LDAP user:
    - Email Address: `admin1@example.org`
    - Password: `secret`

    ![screenshot-with-kubelogin](misc/screenshots-with-kubelogin.png)

    It will be authenticated by Dax + LDAP, and once the authentication is done we can see the output like:

    ```
    $ kubectl --user=oidc-cluster-admin get nodes
    NAME                             STATUS   ROLES                  AGE     VERSION
    dex-ldap-cluster-control-plane   Ready    control-plane,master   8m55s   v1.21.1
    dex-ldap-cluster-worker          Ready    <none>                 8m30s   v1.21.1
    ```

    > Note: as the login will be cached so the subsequent access will be transparent. And of course, if you want you can set this as the default context so there is no need to explicitly mention the user.


## The Step-by-step Guide

### Generating TLS PKI files for both Dex and K8s

> Note: 
> 1. [`cfssl` and `cfssljson`](https://github.com/cloudflare/cfssl/releases) are required to generate certs/keys
> 2. You may try using [cert-manager](https://github.com/jetstack/cert-manager), if you want

```sh
cd tls-setup

make ca req-dex req-k8s
```

> OUTPUT: a folder `_certs` will be created and a couple of pairs of certs/keys will be generated.

```sh
$ tree _certs
_certs
├── ca-key.pem
├── ca.csr
├── ca.pem
├── dex-key.pem
├── dex.csr
├── dex.pem
├── k8s-key.pem
├── k8s.csr
└── k8s.pem

0 directories, 9 files
```

### Creating Kubernetes cluster with API Server configured

> Note: Here I'm going to use `kind`, you may try any other ways too, like `minikube`, `k3s/k3d`, but the process might have to tune a little bit.

```sh
# Make sure we're working from the Git repo's root folder
cd "$( git rev-parse --show-toplevel )"

PROJECT_ROOT="$(pwd)" envsubst < kind/kind.yaml | kind create cluster --name dex-ldap-cluster --config -
```

### Deploying OpenLDAP as the LDAP Server

```sh
# Make sure we're working from the Git repo's root folder
cd "$( git rev-parse --show-toplevel )"

kubectl create ns ldap

kubectl create secret generic openldap \
    --namespace ldap \
    --from-literal=adminpassword=adminpassword

kubectl create configmap ldap \
    --namespace ldap \
    --from-file=ldap/ldif

kubectl apply --namespace ldap -f ldap/ldap.yaml

# Load ldif data after the OpenLDAP is ready
# Note: by right, they should be loaded automatically but it doesn't work so we load them manually
LDAP_POD=$(kubectl -n ldap get pod -l "app.kubernetes.io/name=openldap" -o jsonpath="{.items[0].metadata.name}")
kubectl -n ldap exec $LDAP_POD -- ldapadd -x -D "cn=admin,dc=example,dc=org" -w adminpassword -H ldap://localhost:389 -f /ldifs/0-ous.ldif
kubectl -n ldap exec $LDAP_POD -- ldapadd -x -D "cn=admin,dc=example,dc=org" -w adminpassword -H ldap://localhost:389 -f /ldifs/1-users.ldif
kubectl -n ldap exec $LDAP_POD -- ldapadd -x -D "cn=admin,dc=example,dc=org" -w adminpassword -H ldap://localhost:389 -f /ldifs/2-groups.ldif

# Check the users loaded
kubectl -n ldap exec $LDAP_POD -- \
    ldapsearch -LLL -x -H ldap://localhost:389 -D "cn=admin,dc=example,dc=org" -w adminpassword -b "ou=people,dc=example,dc=org" dn
```

You should see some users that have been created:

```
dn: ou=people,dc=example,dc=org
dn: cn=admin1,ou=people,dc=example,dc=org
dn: cn=admin2,ou=people,dc=example,dc=org
dn: cn=developer1,ou=people,dc=example,dc=org
dn: cn=developer2,ou=people,dc=example,dc=org
```

### Deploying Dex on Kubernetes with LDAP integrated

```sh
# Make sure we're working from the Git repo's root folder
cd "$( git rev-parse --show-toplevel )"

kubectl create ns dex

kubectl create secret tls dex-tls \
    --namespace dex \
    --cert=tls-setup/_certs/dex.pem \
    --key=tls-setup/_certs/dex-key.pem

kubectl apply --namespace dex -f dex/dex.yaml
```

### Enabling proxy to Dex

As the Kubernetes is powered by `kind`, we need to do something extra to access the `Dex`.

There are some other ways [kind#702](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/kind/issues/702) but let's try this:

```sh
$ SVC_PORT="$(kubectl get -n dex svc/dex -o json | jq '.spec.ports[0].nodePort')"

# Create this proxy container
$ docker run -d --restart always \
    --name dex-kind-proxy-$SVC_PORT \
    --publish 127.0.0.1:$SVC_PORT:$SVC_PORT \
    --link kind-control-plane:target \
    --network kind \
    alpine/socat -dd \
    tcp-listen:$SVC_PORT,fork,reuseaddr tcp-connect:target:$SVC_PORT
```

Now we can access Dex by: `https://127.0.0.1:$SVC_PORT/`.

For example, issuing an HTTPS request to the discovery endpoint can verify the installation of Dex:

```sh
$ curl -k https://127.0.0.1:$SVC_PORT/.well-known/openid-configuration
{
  "issuer": "https://dex.dex.svc:32000",
  "authorization_endpoint": "https://dex.dex.svc:32000/auth",
  "token_endpoint": "https://dex.dex.svc:32000/token",
  "jwks_uri": "https://dex.dex.svc:32000/keys",
  "response_types_supported": [
    "code"
  ],
  "subject_types_supported": [
    "public"
  ],
  "id_token_signing_alg_values_supported": [
    "RS256"
  ],
  "scopes_supported": [
    "openid",
    "email",
    "groups",
    "profile",
    "offline_access"
  ],
  "token_endpoint_auth_methods_supported": [
    "client_secret_basic"
  ],
  "claims_supported": [
    "aud",
    "email",
    "email_verified",
    "exp",
    "iat",
    "iss",
    "locale",
    "name",
    "sub"
  ]
}
```

But the issuer has exposed its URL though domain of `dex.dex.svc`, so we have to edit the `/etc/hosts` as the easy fix.

```sh
$ echo "127.0.0.1 dex.dex.svc" | sudo tee -a /etc/hosts
```

### Logging into the cluster

> Note: 
> 1. this `example-app` was copied from Dex's repo, [here](https://github.com/dexidp/dex/tree/master/examples/example-app`).
> 2. I've enabled `go mod` support so the life of playing with it is much easier.

```sh
# Make sure we're working from the Git repo's root folder
cd "$( git rev-parse --show-toplevel )"

cd example-app

go run . \
    --issuer https://dex.dex.svc:$SVC_PORT \
    --issuer-root-ca ../tls-setup/_certs/ca.pem \
    --debug
```

Now open browser and access: `http://127.0.0.1:5555/`
- Leave the form as is and click "Login";
- In "Log in to Your Account" page:
  - Email Address: `admin1@example.org`
  - Password: `secret`
- A series of tokens will be generated, copy down the **`ID Token`**, something like this:
```
eyJhbGciOiJSUzI1NiIsImtpZCI6IjkzMzBkOTRhNGIzZTYwNjNiZTFmMmFhN2JhMWExMzY1ODZlY2MzMWMifQ.eyJpc3MiOiJodHRwczovL2RleC5kZXguc3ZjOjMyMDAwIiwic3ViIjoiQ2lWamJqMWhaRzFwYmpFc2IzVTljR1Z2Y0d4bExHUmpQV1Y0WVcxd2JHVXNaR005YjNKbkVnUnNaR0Z3IiwiYXVkIjoiZXhhbXBsZS1hcHAiLCJleHAiOjE2MDc3NTgxODgsImlhdCI6MTYwNzY3MTc4OCwiYXRfaGFzaCI6IlB3NWJxNF9TYkcwYUZtUkYyZDQwV3ciLCJlbWFpbCI6ImFkbWluMUBleGFtcGxlLm9yZyIsImVtYWlsX3ZlcmlmaWVkIjp0cnVlLCJuYW1lIjoiYWRtaW4xIn0.D_7kzzwlT5u9eq0KYrL64K_az2sO7iQ_5-Oz7nYHcHWQ8bBmxkH5NldsaZjzHKi0myo7EBJtb_6fqT4817h8Tf-FmGw_Ig0Fx-iA8c651L563qsy86s1usrrKyxQo-B6nZi-gvbY_K27KemNhgyGfLjl0PlvNWSUhoA94E3mpnEkdHs0H7Ni8iOgyOoNQV6TisrQgcr6blaVFJoMVhx4_XP1WnC3YZBX3vbGMCamu67BUP1KgnRbUwGqsuWntT-MuNuu8nOaBeIDGSrXFmqkUVGqIwGsG5bBsHqsfXtgePkhxXChhMUwQbUs3B4FkWITSJsjyrvCGEeGBjRtEH1w7A
```

The screenshots are captured like this:

![screenshots](misc/screenshots.png)

### Access Kubernetes by the token retrieved

Now we have the token, let's access it through raw API first:

```sh
# Retrieve the API Endpoint
$ kubectl cluster-info
Kubernetes master is running at https://127.0.0.1:55662
KubeDNS is running at https://127.0.0.1:55662/api/v1/namespaces/kube-system/services/kube-dns:dns/prox

$ APISERVER=https://127.0.0.1:55662 && \
BEARER_TOKEN="eyJhbGciOiJSUzI1NiIsImtpZCI6IjkzMzBkOTRhNGIzZTYwNjNiZTFmMmFhN2JhMWExMzY1ODZlY2MzMWMifQ.eyJpc3MiOiJodHRwczovL2RleC5kZXguc3ZjOjMyMDAwIiwic3ViIjoiQ2lWamJqMWhaRzFwYmpFc2IzVTljR1Z2Y0d4bExHUmpQV1Y0WVcxd2JHVXNaR005YjNKbkVnUnNaR0Z3IiwiYXVkIjoiZXhhbXBsZS1hcHAiLCJleHAiOjE2MDc3NTgxODgsImlhdCI6MTYwNzY3MTc4OCwiYXRfaGFzaCI6IlB3NWJxNF9TYkcwYUZtUkYyZDQwV3ciLCJlbWFpbCI6ImFkbWluMUBleGFtcGxlLm9yZyIsImVtYWlsX3ZlcmlmaWVkIjp0cnVlLCJuYW1lIjoiYWRtaW4xIn0.D_7kzzwlT5u9eq0KYrL64K_az2sO7iQ_5-Oz7nYHcHWQ8bBmxkH5NldsaZjzHKi0myo7EBJtb_6fqT4817h8Tf-FmGw_Ig0Fx-iA8c651L563qsy86s1usrrKyxQo-B6nZi-gvbY_K27KemNhgyGfLjl0PlvNWSUhoA94E3mpnEkdHs0H7Ni8iOgyOoNQV6TisrQgcr6blaVFJoMVhx4_XP1WnC3YZBX3vbGMCamu67BUP1KgnRbUwGqsuWntT-MuNuu8nOaBeIDGSrXFmqkUVGqIwGsG5bBsHqsfXtgePkhxXChhMUwQbUs3B4FkWITSJsjyrvCGEeGBjRtEH1w7A"

$ curl -k $APISERVER/api/v1/namespaces/default/pods/ --header "Authorization: Bearer $BEARER_TOKEN"
{
  "kind": "Status",
  "apiVersion": "v1",
  "metadata": {

  },
  "status": "Failure",
  "message": "pods is forbidden: User \"admin1@example.org\" cannot list resource \"pods\" in API group \"\" in the namespace \"default\"",
  "reason": "Forbidden",
  "details": {
    "kind": "pods"
  },
  "code": 403
}

$ kubectl auth can-i --as admin1@example.org -n dex list pods
no
```

The good news is that Kubernetes has recognized the login user as `admin1@example.org` but still declined the access with `403 Forbidden`.

Why? It's because there is no permission, by default, granted to a new user like `admin1@example.org`.

### Kubernetes Authorization

As you may have seen, authentication is delegated to `Dex` but authorization is handled by Kubernetes itself.

```sh
# Make sure we're working from the Git repo's root folder
cd "$( git rev-parse --show-toplevel )"

kubectl apply -f manifests/authorization.yaml

kubectl auth can-i --as admin1@example.org -n dex list pods
yes

curl -k -s $APISERVER/api/v1/namespaces/dex/pods/ -H "Authorization: Bearer $BEARER_TOKEN" | jq '.items[].metadata.name'
"dex-5f97556766-kcfvl"
```

Yes! We now can access pods within `dex` namespace, as per the permissions granted.

### Generate `kubeconfig`

It's common to generate and distribute such a token by constructing a `kubeconfig` file.

```sh
# Generate a kubeconfig
$ cat > ~/.kube/config-kind <<EOF
apiVersion: v1
kind: Config
preferences: {}
clusters:
- cluster:
    server: $APISERVER
    insecure-skip-tls-verify: true
  name: kind
contexts:
- context:
    cluster: kind
    namespace: default
    user: admin1@example.org
  name: admin1@example.org
current-context: admin1@example.org
users:
- name: admin1@example.org
  user:
    token: $BEARER_TOKEN
EOF

$ kubectl get pods -n dex --kubeconfig ~/.kube/config-kind
NAME                   READY   STATUS    RESTARTS   AGE
dex-5f97556766-kcfvl   1/1     Running   1          1h28m
```

Perfect!

## Clean Up

```sh
# Delete the kind cluster
kind delete cluster --name dex-ldap-cluster

# Delete the Socat proxy container
docker rm -f dex-kind-proxy-32000
```

## References

- https://dexidp.io/docs/kubernetes/
- https://gist.github.com/yifan-gu/6fce1016a4cfe4c40d9c

Commit message:

update the doc for how to remove cache

README.md, after:

# Kubernetes + Dex + LDAP Integration

A simple walk-through guide for how to integrate `Kubernetes` with `Dex` + `LDAP`.

In this experiment, we're going to use these major components:

- Kubernetes v1.21.x, powered by [`kind` v0.11.1](https://kind.sigs.k8s.io/);
- [Dex](https://github.com/dexidp/dex) v2.30.x;
- [OpenLDAP](https://www.openldap.org/) with [osixia/openldap:1.5.x](https://github.com/osixia/docker-openldap)

A Medium article was posted too, here: https://brightzheng100.medium.com/kubernetes-dex-ldap-integration-f305292a16b9

The overall idea can be illustrated as below:

![architecture](misc/architecture.png)

## Get Started

```sh
git clone https://github.com/brightzheng100/kubernetes-dex-ldap-integration.git
cd kubernetes-dex-ldap-integration
```

## The TL;DR Guide

### Setup

The TD;DR guide uses the script here: [setup.sh](setup.sh), which will:
1. check the required tools -- there are some of them: `docker`, `git`, `cfssl`, `cfssljson`, `kind`, `kubectl`;
2. generate the necessary TLS certs/keys for both Kubernetes and Dex;
3. create `kind`-powered Kubernetes with OIDC configured with Dex;
4. deploy OpenLDAP in namespace `ldap` as the LDAP Server with some dummy entities;
5. deploy Dex in namespace `dex`;
6. create a proxy so that we can access Dex from our laptop (e.g. my MBP)

```sh
./setup.sh
```

> Note: the populated dummy LDAP entities, all with password `secret`, include:
> - `admin1@example.org`
> - `admin2@example.org`
> - `developer1@example.org`
> - `developer2@example.org`

### Use

It's common to set up the kube config, e.g. `~/.kube/config`, for daily use.

For that, we may simply follow these steps:

1. Bind some users, say **"admin1@example.org"**, as the **"cluster-admin"**

    ```sh
    $ kubectl create clusterrolebinding oidc-cluster-admin \
      --clusterrole=cluster-admin \
      --user="admin1@example.org"
    ```

2. Use [`kubelogin`](https://github.com/int128/kubelogin) plugin to simplify the integration

    ```sh
    $ echo "127.0.0.1 dex.dex.svc" | sudo tee -a /etc/hosts

    $ SVC_PORT="$(kubectl get -n dex svc/dex -o json | jq '.spec.ports[0].nodePort')"
    $ kubectl config set-credentials oidc \
        --exec-api-version=client.authentication.k8s.io/v1beta1 \
        --exec-command=kubectl \
        --exec-arg=oidc-login \
        --exec-arg=get-token \
        --exec-arg=--oidc-issuer-url=https://dex.dex.svc:$SVC_PORT \
        --exec-arg=--oidc-redirect-url-hostname=dex.dex.svc \
        --exec-arg=--oidc-client-id=example-app \
        --exec-arg=--oidc-client-secret=ZXhhbXBsZS1hcHAtc2VjcmV0 \
        --exec-arg=--oidc-extra-scope=email \
        --exec-arg=--certificate-authority=`pwd`/tls-setup/_certs/ca.pem
    ```

3. Use the user to access Kubernetes

    ```sh
    $ kubectl --user=oidc get nodes
    ```

    This will prompt us a authentication UI in our default browser, key in the credential of abovementioned LDAP user:
    - Email Address: `admin1@example.org`
    - Password: `secret`

    ![screenshot-with-kubelogin](misc/screenshots-with-kubelogin.png)

    It will be authenticated by Dax + LDAP, and once the authentication is done we can see the output like:

    ```
    $ kubectl --user=oidc get nodes
    NAME                             STATUS   ROLES                  AGE     VERSION
    dex-ldap-cluster-control-plane   Ready    control-plane,master   8m55s   v1.21.1
    dex-ldap-cluster-worker          Ready    <none>                 8m30s   v1.21.1
    ```

    > Notes: 
    > - as the login will be cached so the subsequent access will be transparent;
    > - if you want to change the user, you may remove the cache (`rm -rf ~/.kube/cache/oidc-login/*`) first and you would be prompted again for what user you want to use


## The Step-by-step Guide

### Generating TLS PKI files for both Dex and K8s

> Note: 
> 1. [`cfssl` and `cfssljson`](https://github.com/cloudflare/cfssl/releases) are required to generate certs/keys
> 2. You may try using [cert-manager](https://github.com/jetstack/cert-manager), if you want

```sh
cd tls-setup

make ca req-dex req-k8s
```

> OUTPUT: a folder `_certs` will be created and a couple of pairs of certs/keys will be generated.

```sh
$ tree _certs
_certs
├── ca-key.pem
├── ca.csr
├── ca.pem
├── dex-key.pem
├── dex.csr
├── dex.pem
├── k8s-key.pem
├── k8s.csr
└── k8s.pem

0 directories, 9 files
```

### Creating Kubernetes cluster with API Server configured

> Note: Here I'm going to use `kind`, you may try any other ways too, like `minikube`, `k3s/k3d`, but the process might have to tune a little bit.

```sh
# Make sure we're working from the Git repo's root folder
cd "$( git rev-parse --show-toplevel )"

PROJECT_ROOT="$(pwd)" envsubst < kind/kind.yaml | kind create cluster --name dex-ldap-cluster --config -
```

### Deploying OpenLDAP as the LDAP Server

```sh
# Make sure we're working from the Git repo's root folder
cd "$( git rev-parse --show-toplevel )"

kubectl create ns ldap

kubectl create secret generic openldap \
    --namespace ldap \
    --from-literal=adminpassword=adminpassword

kubectl create configmap ldap \
    --namespace ldap \
    --from-file=ldap/ldif

kubectl apply --namespace ldap -f ldap/ldap.yaml

# Load ldif data after the OpenLDAP is ready
# Note: by right, they should be loaded automatically but it doesn't work so we load them manually
LDAP_POD=$(kubectl -n ldap get pod -l "app.kubernetes.io/name=openldap" -o jsonpath="{.items[0].metadata.name}")
kubectl -n ldap exec $LDAP_POD -- ldapadd -x -D "cn=admin,dc=example,dc=org" -w adminpassword -H ldap://localhost:389 -f /ldifs/0-ous.ldif
kubectl -n ldap exec $LDAP_POD -- ldapadd -x -D "cn=admin,dc=example,dc=org" -w adminpassword -H ldap://localhost:389 -f /ldifs/1-users.ldif
kubectl -n ldap exec $LDAP_POD -- ldapadd -x -D "cn=admin,dc=example,dc=org" -w adminpassword -H ldap://localhost:389 -f /ldifs/2-groups.ldif

# Check the users loaded
kubectl -n ldap exec $LDAP_POD -- \
    ldapsearch -LLL -x -H ldap://localhost:389 -D "cn=admin,dc=example,dc=org" -w adminpassword -b "ou=people,dc=example,dc=org" dn
```

You should see some users that have been created:

```
dn: ou=people,dc=example,dc=org
dn: cn=admin1,ou=people,dc=example,dc=org
dn: cn=admin2,ou=people,dc=example,dc=org
dn: cn=developer1,ou=people,dc=example,dc=org
dn: cn=developer2,ou=people,dc=example,dc=org
```

### Deploying Dex on Kubernetes with LDAP integrated

```sh
# Make sure we're working from the Git repo's root folder
cd "$( git rev-parse --show-toplevel )"

kubectl create ns dex

kubectl create secret tls dex-tls \
    --namespace dex \
    --cert=tls-setup/_certs/dex.pem \
    --key=tls-setup/_certs/dex-key.pem

kubectl apply --namespace dex -f dex/dex.yaml
```

### Enabling proxy to Dex

As the Kubernetes is powered by `kind`, we need to do something extra to access the `Dex`.

There are some other ways [kind#702](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/kind/issues/702) but let's try this:

```sh
$ SVC_PORT="$(kubectl get -n dex svc/dex -o json | jq '.spec.ports[0].nodePort')"

# Create this proxy container
$ docker run -d --restart always \
    --name dex-kind-proxy-$SVC_PORT \
    --publish 127.0.0.1:$SVC_PORT:$SVC_PORT \
    --link kind-control-plane:target \
    --network kind \
    alpine/socat -dd \
    tcp-listen:$SVC_PORT,fork,reuseaddr tcp-connect:target:$SVC_PORT
```

Now we can access Dex by: `https://127.0.0.1:$SVC_PORT/`.

For example, issuing an HTTPS request to the discovery endpoint can verify the installation of Dex:

```sh
$ curl -k https://127.0.0.1:$SVC_PORT/.well-known/openid-configuration
{
  "issuer": "https://dex.dex.svc:32000",
  "authorization_endpoint": "https://dex.dex.svc:32000/auth",
  "token_endpoint": "https://dex.dex.svc:32000/token",
  "jwks_uri": "https://dex.dex.svc:32000/keys",
  "response_types_supported": [
    "code"
  ],
  "subject_types_supported": [
    "public"
  ],
  "id_token_signing_alg_values_supported": [
    "RS256"
  ],
  "scopes_supported": [
    "openid",
    "email",
    "groups",
    "profile",
    "offline_access"
  ],
  "token_endpoint_auth_methods_supported": [
    "client_secret_basic"
  ],
  "claims_supported": [
    "aud",
    "email",
    "email_verified",
    "exp",
    "iat",
    "iss",
    "locale",
    "name",
    "sub"
  ]
}
```

But the issuer has exposed its URL though domain of `dex.dex.svc`, so we have to edit the `/etc/hosts` as the easy fix.

```sh
$ echo "127.0.0.1 dex.dex.svc" | sudo tee -a /etc/hosts
```

### Logging into the cluster

> Note: 
> 1. this `example-app` was copied from Dex's repo, [here](https://github.com/dexidp/dex/tree/master/examples/example-app`).
> 2. I've enabled `go mod` support so the life of playing with it is much easier.

```sh
# Make sure we're working from the Git repo's root folder
cd "$( git rev-parse --show-toplevel )"

cd example-app

go run . \
    --issuer https://dex.dex.svc:$SVC_PORT \
    --issuer-root-ca ../tls-setup/_certs/ca.pem \
    --debug
```

Now open browser and access: `http://127.0.0.1:5555/`
- Leave the form as is and click "Login";
- In "Log in to Your Account" page:
  - Email Address: `admin1@example.org`
  - Password: `secret`
- A series of tokens will be generated, copy down the **`ID Token`**, something like this:
```
eyJhbGciOiJSUzI1NiIsImtpZCI6IjkzMzBkOTRhNGIzZTYwNjNiZTFmMmFhN2JhMWExMzY1ODZlY2MzMWMifQ.eyJpc3MiOiJodHRwczovL2RleC5kZXguc3ZjOjMyMDAwIiwic3ViIjoiQ2lWamJqMWhaRzFwYmpFc2IzVTljR1Z2Y0d4bExHUmpQV1Y0WVcxd2JHVXNaR005YjNKbkVnUnNaR0Z3IiwiYXVkIjoiZXhhbXBsZS1hcHAiLCJleHAiOjE2MDc3NTgxODgsImlhdCI6MTYwNzY3MTc4OCwiYXRfaGFzaCI6IlB3NWJxNF9TYkcwYUZtUkYyZDQwV3ciLCJlbWFpbCI6ImFkbWluMUBleGFtcGxlLm9yZyIsImVtYWlsX3ZlcmlmaWVkIjp0cnVlLCJuYW1lIjoiYWRtaW4xIn0.D_7kzzwlT5u9eq0KYrL64K_az2sO7iQ_5-Oz7nYHcHWQ8bBmxkH5NldsaZjzHKi0myo7EBJtb_6fqT4817h8Tf-FmGw_Ig0Fx-iA8c651L563qsy86s1usrrKyxQo-B6nZi-gvbY_K27KemNhgyGfLjl0PlvNWSUhoA94E3mpnEkdHs0H7Ni8iOgyOoNQV6TisrQgcr6blaVFJoMVhx4_XP1WnC3YZBX3vbGMCamu67BUP1KgnRbUwGqsuWntT-MuNuu8nOaBeIDGSrXFmqkUVGqIwGsG5bBsHqsfXtgePkhxXChhMUwQbUs3B4FkWITSJsjyrvCGEeGBjRtEH1w7A
```

The screenshots are captured like this:

![screenshots](misc/screenshots.png)

### Access Kubernetes by the token retrieved

Now we have the token, let's access it through raw API first:

```sh
# Retrieve the API Endpoint
$ kubectl cluster-info
Kubernetes master is running at https://127.0.0.1:55662
KubeDNS is running at https://127.0.0.1:55662/api/v1/namespaces/kube-system/services/kube-dns:dns/prox

$ APISERVER=https://127.0.0.1:55662 && \
BEARER_TOKEN="eyJhbGciOiJSUzI1NiIsImtpZCI6IjkzMzBkOTRhNGIzZTYwNjNiZTFmMmFhN2JhMWExMzY1ODZlY2MzMWMifQ.eyJpc3MiOiJodHRwczovL2RleC5kZXguc3ZjOjMyMDAwIiwic3ViIjoiQ2lWamJqMWhaRzFwYmpFc2IzVTljR1Z2Y0d4bExHUmpQV1Y0WVcxd2JHVXNaR005YjNKbkVnUnNaR0Z3IiwiYXVkIjoiZXhhbXBsZS1hcHAiLCJleHAiOjE2MDc3NTgxODgsImlhdCI6MTYwNzY3MTc4OCwiYXRfaGFzaCI6IlB3NWJxNF9TYkcwYUZtUkYyZDQwV3ciLCJlbWFpbCI6ImFkbWluMUBleGFtcGxlLm9yZyIsImVtYWlsX3ZlcmlmaWVkIjp0cnVlLCJuYW1lIjoiYWRtaW4xIn0.D_7kzzwlT5u9eq0KYrL64K_az2sO7iQ_5-Oz7nYHcHWQ8bBmxkH5NldsaZjzHKi0myo7EBJtb_6fqT4817h8Tf-FmGw_Ig0Fx-iA8c651L563qsy86s1usrrKyxQo-B6nZi-gvbY_K27KemNhgyGfLjl0PlvNWSUhoA94E3mpnEkdHs0H7Ni8iOgyOoNQV6TisrQgcr6blaVFJoMVhx4_XP1WnC3YZBX3vbGMCamu67BUP1KgnRbUwGqsuWntT-MuNuu8nOaBeIDGSrXFmqkUVGqIwGsG5bBsHqsfXtgePkhxXChhMUwQbUs3B4FkWITSJsjyrvCGEeGBjRtEH1w7A"

$ curl -k $APISERVER/api/v1/namespaces/default/pods/ --header "Authorization: Bearer $BEARER_TOKEN"
{
  "kind": "Status",
  "apiVersion": "v1",
  "metadata": {

  },
  "status": "Failure",
  "message": "pods is forbidden: User \"admin1@example.org\" cannot list resource \"pods\" in API group \"\" in the namespace \"default\"",
  "reason": "Forbidden",
  "details": {
    "kind": "pods"
  },
  "code": 403
}

$ kubectl auth can-i --as admin1@example.org -n dex list pods
no
```

The good news is that Kubernetes has recognized the login user as `admin1@example.org` but still declined the access with `403 Forbidden`.

Why? It's because there is no permission, by default, granted to a new user like `admin1@example.org`.

### Kubernetes Authorization

As you may have seen, authentication is delegated to `Dex` but authorization is handled by Kubernetes itself.

```sh
# Make sure we're working from the Git repo's root folder
cd "$( git rev-parse --show-toplevel )"

kubectl apply -f manifests/authorization.yaml

kubectl auth can-i --as admin1@example.org -n dex list pods
yes

curl -k -s $APISERVER/api/v1/namespaces/dex/pods/ -H "Authorization: Bearer $BEARER_TOKEN" | jq '.items[].metadata.name'
"dex-5f97556766-kcfvl"
```

Yes! We now can access pods within `dex` namespace, as per the permissions granted.

### Generate `kubeconfig`

It's common to generate and distribute such a token by constructing a `kubeconfig` file.

```sh
# Generate a kubeconfig
$ cat > ~/.kube/config-kind <<EOF
apiVersion: v1
kind: Config
preferences: {}
clusters:
- cluster:
    server: $APISERVER
    insecure-skip-tls-verify: true
  name: kind
contexts:
- context:
    cluster: kind
    namespace: default
    user: admin1@example.org
  name: admin1@example.org
current-context: admin1@example.org
users:
- name: admin1@example.org
  user:
    token: $BEARER_TOKEN
EOF

$ kubectl get pods -n dex --kubeconfig ~/.kube/config-kind
NAME                   READY   STATUS    RESTARTS   AGE
dex-5f97556766-kcfvl   1/1     Running   1          1h28m
```

Perfect!

## Clean Up

```sh
# Delete the kind cluster
kind delete cluster --name dex-ldap-cluster

# Delete the Socat proxy container
docker rm -f dex-kind-proxy-32000
```

## References

- https://dexidp.io/docs/kubernetes/
- https://gist.github.com/yifan-gu/6fce1016a4cfe4c40d9c
